Requirements for the HW plugin to integrate with AUTO (#17053)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: src/plugins/auto/docs/integration.md

# AUTO Plugin Integration

## Implement a new plugin
Please refer to [OpenVINO Plugin Developer Guide](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_docs_ie_plugin_dg_overview.html)

QueryNetwork(query_model) is recommanded since it is important for AUTO to make quick decision and save selection time.

## AUTO Plugin requirements of properties

.. note:: AUTO Plugin call IE APIs to plugins

| Property                             |  Manatory | Purpose                                       |
| ------------------------------------ |  -------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| ov::device::id                       |  Yes      | Distinguish devices with same type.           |
| ov::enable_profiling                 |  Yes      | Performance profiling.                        |
| ov::hint::performance_mode           |  Yes      | Performance mode hint.                        |
| ov::hint::num_requests               |  Yes      | num_requests hint.                            |
| ov::device::full_name                |  Yes      | Automatic device selection.                   |

> | ov::model_name                       |  Yes      | For AUTO to support this property.            |

Reviewer: what about "Model name loaded to AUTO"?

| ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests |  Yes      | Decide AUTO optimal_number_of_infer_requests. |
| ov::range_for_streams                |  Yes      | Decide AUTO optimal_number_of_infer_requests in automatic batching case. |
| ov::supported_properties             |  Yes      | Check if a property is supported by HW plugin.|
| ov::device::capabilities             |  Yes      | Automatic device selection.                   |
| ov::device::gops                     |  No       | Improve automatic device selection.           |

## AUTO Plugin tests
Please refer to [Testing the AUTO Plugin](./tests.md)

## AUTO Plugin integration tests

### Utilize benchmark_app to test AUTO together with hardware plugins

command: benchmark_app -d ${device} -hint ${hint} -m \<any model works on HW plugin>

| hint                  | device        |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| throughput            | \<HW>          |
| throughput            | AUTO:\<HW>     |
| throughput            | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |
| latency               | \<HW>          |
| latency               | AUTO:\<HW>     |
| latency               | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |

> | cumulative_throughput | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |

Reviewer 2: suggest to add below case
| cumulative_throughput | AUTO:\<HW> |

# AUTO Plugin Integration

## Implement a new plugin
Please refer to [OpenVINO Plugin Developer Guide](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_docs_ie_plugin_dg_overview.html)

> QueryNetwork(query_model) is recommanded since it is important for AUTO to make quick decision and save selection time.

Reviewer 3: Please DO NOT USE Network word, we don't use it in new API

## AUTO Plugin requirements of properties

> .. note:: AUTO Plugin call IE APIs to plugins

Reviewer 3: The same. We don't have Inference Engine. Please use new terminology.

# AUTO Plugin Integration

> ## Implement a new plugin

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Implement a New Plugin
```

> Please refer to [OpenVINO Plugin Developer Guide](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_docs_ie_plugin_dg_overview.html)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Refer to [OpenVINO Plugin Developer Guide](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_docs_ie_plugin_dg_overview.html) for detailed information on how to implement a new plugin.
```

Query model method (`ov::IPlugin::query_model()`) is recommended since it is important for AUTO to make quick decision and save selection time.

## AUTO Plugin requirements of properties

.. note:: AUTO Plugin asks for the following plugin properties

> | Property                             |  Manatory | Purpose                                       |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Property                             |  Mandatory | Purpose                                       |
```

| ov::enable_profiling                 |  Yes      | Performance profiling.                        |
| ov::hint::performance_mode           |  Yes      | Performance mode hint.                        |
| ov::hint::num_requests               |  Yes      | num_requests hint.                            |
| ov::device::full_name                |  Yes      | Automatic device selection.                   |
| ov::model_name                       |  Yes      | Return model name.                            |
| ov::optimal_batch_size               |  No       | Decide batch size in automatic batching case. |
| ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests |  Yes      | Decide AUTO optimal_number_of_infer_requests. |
| ov::range_for_streams                |  Yes      | Decide AUTO optimal_number_of_infer_requests in automatic batching case. |
| ov::supported_properties             |  Yes      | Check if a property is supported by HW plugin.|
| ov::device::capabilities             |  Yes      | Automatic device selection.                   |
| ov::device::gops                     |  No       | Improve automatic device selection.           |

> | ov::compilation_num_threads          |  No       | Limit the comilation threads for single device when compiling model to multiple devices. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| ov::compilation_num_threads          |  No       | Limit the compilation threads for a single device when compiling a model to multiple devices. |
```

> ## AUTO Plugin tests

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## AUTO Plugin Tests
```

Please refer to [Testing the AUTO Plugin](./tests.md)

> ## AUTO Plugin integration tests

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## AUTO Plugin Integration Tests
```

### Utilize benchmark_app to test AUTO together with hardware plugins

> command: benchmark_app -d ${device} -hint ${hint} -m \<any model works on HW plugin>

Reviewer 4: Please use ```bash format for code

```bash
benchmark_app -d ${device} -hint ${hint} -m \<any model works on HW plugin>
```

| hint                  | device        |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| throughput            | \<HW>          |
| throughput            | AUTO:\<HW>     |
| throughput            | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |
| latency               | \<HW>          |
| latency               | AUTO:\<HW>     |
| latency               | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |
| cumulative_throughput | AUTO:\<HW>     |
| cumulative_throughput | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |

> ### Test multiple devices running simultaneously

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Test Multiple Devices Running Simultaneously
```

> For example, there may be 2 GPUs on the same system, with devivce names as GPU.0 and GPU.1.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, there may be two GPUs on the same system, with device names GPU.0 and GPU.1.
```

Reviewer 4: looks like the example is a bit unclear. We need either to add something here "there may be two GPUs on the same -system" -> and... (the cause, we need to maximize resource utilization or ensure compatibility or something else, etc.)  -> that's why The HW plugin must guarantee simultaneous execution of multiple devices in different threads -> It is recommended to test the HW plugin with the CPU plugin  ->how to do it

Author: Updated.

> It is required for HW plugin to guarrantee multiple devices can be run in different threads simultaneously. It is recommended for HW plugin to test with CPU plugin, i.e., running CPU plugin and HW plugin in different threads simultaneously.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The HW plugin must guarantee simultaneous execution of multiple devices in different threads. It is recommended to test the HW plugin with the CPU plugin by running the plugins in different threads simultaneously.
```

# AUTO Plugin Integration

## Implement a new plugin
Please refer to [OpenVINO Plugin Developer Guide](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_docs_ie_plugin_dg_overview.html)

QueryNetwork(query_model) is recommanded since it is important for AUTO to make quick decision and save selection time.

## AUTO Plugin requirements of properties

.. note:: AUTO Plugin call IE APIs to plugins

> | IE API                                       | OV API 2.0                           | Mandatory                             |

Reviewer 5: Let's drop 1.0 API mentioning

| METRIC_KEY(FULL_DEVICE_NAME)                 | ov::device::full_name                | Yes                                   |
| METRIC_KEY(NETWORK_NAME)                     | ov::model_name                       | Yes                                   |
| METRIC_KEY(OPTIMAL_BATCH_SIZE)               | ov::optimal_batch_size               | No: Have this for size decision.      |
| METRIC_KEY(OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS) | ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests | Yes                                   |
| METRIC_KEY(RANGE_FOR_STREAMS)                | ov::range_for_streams                | Yes                                   |
| METRIC_KEY(SUPPORTED_CONFIG_KEYS)            | ov::supported_properties             | Yes                                   |
| METRIC_KEY(SUPPORTED_METRICS)                | ov::supported_properties             | Yes                                   |
| METRIC_KEY(OPTIMIZATION_CAPABILITIES)        | ov::device::capabilities             | Yes                                   |
| METRIC_KEY(DEVICE_GOPS)                      | ov::device::gops                     | No: For automatic device selection priority. |

> | METRIC_KEY(DEVICE_ARCHITECTURE)              | ov::device::architecture             | No                                    |

Reviewer 5: for what reason auto calls device::architecture?
can we write reason for each property? Instead of boolean mandatory flag

BTW, should we convert these requirements for HW plugins into plugin development guide? Eg. create a dedicated page here https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_docs_ie_plugin_dg_overview.html

| METRIC_KEY(DEVICE_TYPE)                      | ov::device::type                     | No                                    |

> For [Automatic Batching](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_docs_OV_UG_Automatic_Batching.html), following 2 properies should be supported.

Reviewer 2: Remove Auto Batching part as we discussed in meeting

> For [Automatic Batching](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_docs_OV_UG_Automatic_Batching.html), following 2 properies should be supported.

Reviewer 6: ..., the following two properties should be supported.

| IE API                          | OV API 2.0                    | Mandatory |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --------- |
| CONFIG_KEY(ALLOW_AUTO_BATCHING) | ov::hint::allow_auto_batching | Yes       |
| CONFIG_KEY(AUTO_BATCH_TIMEOUT)  | ov::auto_batch_timeout        | Yes       |

## AUTO Plugin tests
Please refer to [Testing the AUTO Plugin](./docs/tests.md)

## AUTO Plugin integration tests

### Utilize benchmark_app to test AUTO together with hardware plugins

command: benchmark_app -d ${device} -hint ${hint} -m \<any model works on HW plugin>

| hint                  | device        |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| throughput            | \<HW>          |
| throughput            | AUTO:\<HW>     |
| throughput            | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |
| latency               | \<HW>          |
| latency               | AUTO:\<HW>     |
| latency               | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |
| cumulative_throughput | AUTO:\<HW>,CPU |

### Test multiple devices running simultaneously

> For example, there may be 2 GPUs on the same system, there will be GPU.0 GPU.1 devices

Reviewer 6: there may be two GPUs in the system, with device names as GPU.0 and GPU.1.

> It is required for HW plugin to guarrantee multiple devices can be run in different threads simultaneously. It will be better if HW plugin can test with CPU plugin together by running them (CPU plugin and HW plugins) in different threads simultaneously.

Reviewer 6: It is recommended for HW plugin to test with CPU plugin, i.e., running CPU plugin and HW plugin in different threads simultaneously.
